h2. Setup MediaWiki for Elexis

It was impossible (given the limited time budget) to setup up Mediwiki using only puppet.
We describe here therefore why and what we could setup using puppet and what manual steps were needed.

h2. Setup via puppet

Puppet is reponsible for installing

* Mediwiki with the following helpers and extensions
** mediawiki-extensions
** imagemagick
** clamav (Anti-Virus)
** php5
** php5-fpm (Cache for PHP5)
** php-apc (Cache for PHP5)
** php5-gd (for uploading images)
** nginx (Http-Server)
** mysql (DB-Server)
*** Database for MediaWiki: elexis_wiki

I used http://www.howtoforge.com/installing-nginx-with-php5-and-php-fpm-and-mysql-support-lemp-on-debian-wheezy to resolve these issues.


h2. Configuration of mediwiki

Nginx: Needs /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/elexis_wiki. Based on http://wiki.nginx.org/MediaWiki
Other example would be http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Short_URL/Page_title_-_nginx,_Root_Access,_PHP_as_a_CGI_module

I found no way that MediaWiki works correctly if you just place a LocalSettings.php into /etc/mediawiki. Therefore one has to to it manually.
Screenshots are found here.

Compare your LocalSettings.php after installation to /etc/mediawiki/LocalSettings.php.soll!

Following changes are important.
* Use DE as language
* enable upload of images 
* enable ShortURL (Needs some changes in /etc/nginx/sites-enabled/elexis_wiki). See also http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Short_URL

h2. Initial fill of Elexis_Wiki

The initial content was loaded using https://raw.github.com/wiki/elexis/doc_de/create_mediawiki_import.rb

h2. TODO

* More languages
* Various versions of elexis
* Create books (siehe http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:Collection)
* Improve import script for categories!
* Liber/OpenOffice Wiki Publisher  benutzen. http://www.libreoffice.org/features/extensions.
** Siehe http://www.textheld.de/2011/10/21/libreoffice-oder-openoffice-fr-wiki-betrge-nutzen/
* Use  https://github.com/kenpratt/wikipedia-client to verify tags, etc

# F@d9J52azXn6
admin@elexis.info  als admin email

Installation PDF writer
#apt-get install g++ perl python python-dev python-setuptools python-imaging python-lxml libevent-dev
# easy_install mwlib && rehash


Had error Auf dem Render-Server ist ein Fehler aufgetreten: RuntimeError: RuntimeError: command failed with returncode 256: 
['mw-zip', '-o', '/home/pp/cache/bb/bbf1e5e9141e2397/collection.zip', '-m', '/home/pp/cache/bb/bbf1e5e9141e2397/metabook.json', '--status', 'qserve://localhost:14311/bbf1e5e9141e2397:makezip]
mw-zip -o /home/pp/cache/bb/bbf1e5e9141e2397/collection.zip -m /home/pp/cache/bb/bbf1e5e9141e2397/metabook.json --status qserve://localhost:14311/bbf1e5e9141e2397:makezip

http://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Setup_a_render_server_on_Ubuntu_12.04_LTS
sudo apt-get install -y gcc g++ make python python-pip python-dev python-virtualenv libjpeg-dev libz-dev libfreetype6-dev liblcms-dev libxml2-dev libxslt-dev ocaml-nox git-core python-imaging python-lxml texlive-latex-recommended ploticus dvipng imagemagick pdftk
Danach ging als www-data 
mw-zip -c :en -o test.zip Formula NK-33 Jupiter
mw-render -c test.zip -o test.pdf -w rl
Aber es gab Fehler 
/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mwlib.ext-0.13.2-py2.7-linux-x86_64.egg/mwlib/ext/reportlab/pdfbase/pdfmetrics.py:35: UserWarning: pyfribidi is not installed - RTL not supported
  warnings.warn('pyfribidi is not installed - RTL not supported')
MISSING FONTS: 'AR PL UMing HK','Nazli','UnBatang','Arundina Serif','Lohit Telugu','Sarai','Gujarati','Lohit Punjabi','Lohit Oriya','AnjaliOldLipi','Kedage','LikhanNormal','Lohit Tamil','Khmer'
reading /tmp/tmp-mw-renderWgJ_72/tmpg9CTK3/revisions-1.txt
set locale to 'en_US.UTF-8' based on the language 'en'
2013-12-03T21:31:47 rlwriter.info >> rendering: 'http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Formula'
2013-12-03T21:31:48 rlwriter.info >> rendering: 'http://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=NK-33'
2013-12-03T21:31:48 rlwriter.warning >> image can not be opened by PIL: '/tmp/tmp-mw-renderWgJ_72/tmpg9CTK3/images/safe/5138cfe0393f8d406979477b0e5b3cc1.jpg'
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mwlib.rl-0.14.4-py2.7.egg/mwlib/rl/rlwriter.py", line 1442, in writeImageLink
    ret = self._fixBrokenImages(img_node, img_path)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/mwlib.rl-0.14.4-py2.7.egg/mwlib/rl/rlwriter.py", line 1410, in _fixBrokenImages
    d = img.load()
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/Pillow-2.2.1-py2.7-linux-x86_64.egg/PIL/ImageFile.py", line 190, in load
    d = Image._getdecoder(self.mode, d, a, self.decoderconfig)
  File "/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages/Pillow-2.2.1-py2.7-linux-x86_64.egg/PIL/Image.py", line 389, in _getdecoder
    raise IOError("decoder %s not available" % decoder_name)
IOError: decoder jpeg not available
2013-12-03T21:31:48 rlwriter.warning >> image skipped
2013-12-03T21:31:48 rlwriter.warning >> image can not be opened by PIL: '/tmp/tmp-mw-renderWgJ_72/tmpg9CTK3/images/safe/5e3ac0e8412310fb5038fbc4ebf9b813.jpg'
Traceback (most recent call last):

PDF auf wiki.elexis.info brach nach 1% ab

Eventuell müsste man auf die aktuellste Version 1.21 upgraden.

Lösung war gemäss

http://jj.isgeek.net/2011/09/install-pil-with-jpeg-support-on-ubuntu-oneiric-64bits/
ln -s /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libjpeg.so /usr/lib
ln -s /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libfreetype.so /usr/lib
ln -s /usr/lib/x86_64-linux-gnu/libz.so /usr/lib
pip install -I  PIL

pip install --upgrade mwlib
pip install --upgrade mwlib.rl

Todo: Run as dameontools
nserve & mw-qserve & nslave --cachedir /data/mwcache & postman --cachedir /data/mwcache
stop via killall

http://ubuntuguide.org/wiki/Collections_tips#Start_the_mw_server


Eingebrochen ab 31.1.2014
    Elexis‏‎ (Bürokrat, Administrator, translator) (Erstellt am 27. Oktober 2013 um 15:17 Uhr)
    Niklaus‏‎ (translator) (Erstellt am 27. Oktober 2013 um 15:25 Uhr)
    Marty (Erstellt am 27. Oktober 2013 um 23:57 Uhr)
    Mdescher (Erstellt am 28. Oktober 2013 um 07:23 Uhr)
    Fmarty‏‎ (Trusted, Bürokrat, Administrator, translator) (Erstellt am 29. Oktober 2013 um 20:53 Uhr)
    Rtschumi (Erstellt am 26. November 2013 um 12:01 Uhr)
    Iatrix-hilfe (Erstellt am 3. Dezember 2013 um 20:18 Uhr)